Project 2: NEWSAPI (A React application that consumes public API and aggregates news headlines)
A react project

Overview
NEWS API is a news aggregator collating online news from different online papers across various countries. It was a pair coding project built in 2 days, and was both the first aggregating site we built, and our first real-world type practice with REACT. Launch on Check out the GitHub Repo.

Brief
1. The second project is to **build a React application** that consumes a **public API**.

2. Your app must:
​
* **Consume a public API** – this could be anything but it must make sense for your project.
* **Have several components** - At least one classical and one functional.
* **The app should include a router** - with several "pages".
* **Include wireframes** - that you designed before building the app.
* Have **semantically clean HTML** - you make sure you write HTML that makes structural sense rather than thinking about how it might look, which is the job of CSS.

3. * **Be deployed online** and accessible to the public.

Technologies Used
1. HTML5 with HTML5 audio
2. CSS3 with animation (Style.scss)
3. JavaScript (ES6)
4. React
5. Git 5 GitHub
6. Google Fonts
7. bulma
8. webpack
9.

Approach Taken
1. Started by setting up the HTML file with the id of root.
2. The next step was to set up the app.js file which would bring together the codes on the rest of the files.
3. We then created the index page which we used to fetch data from the API and then filter for I decided the simplest way to represent the grid would be as an array of divs, wrapped within a flex-box, with each 'item' having an assigned CSS class to represent the items visually. This would mean representing the movement of items especially Aliens using first of all variables to calculate the width as regards Alien movement and ensure they do not leave the grid and then using an ‘AND’ and ‘OR’ statement with both horizontal and vertical movement: +/- 1 to ensure the move asynchronously. Aliens would be generated at the top using an array and putting in a forEach method to add an Alien to a square which controls the Alien index array. The Player would be generated at the bottom by assigning it a grid ID called userIndex on the squares grid. A keydown eventlistener and a switch case would also be used to move the Player left or right. The missile from the Player to kill the Aliens would be generated by assigning a setInterval function to a variable missileId and nesting it inside a keycode eventListener while that from the Aliens to kill the Player would be generated by assigning a setInterval function to a variable bombInterval which would be nested in a function called alienBombs.

Functionality
Collision
How would the app know if the Players missile and Alien have collided and if the Aliens Bomb and the Players ship have collided? I had to define what a collision was: when two or more items occupy the same space. Each item had an index within the array, called position, if the position of the Players missile and the Alien were the same, there was a collision. Likewise, if the Alien’s bomb and the Players position was the same, there was a collision:

Alien’s bomb collision with Player
function alienCollision()
if (currentPlayer.classList.contains('bomb')) {
  currentPlayer.classList.remove('bomb')
  if (lives > 0) {
    lives—
  }
}

Players missile collision with Alien
const missileId = setInterval(() => {
if(squares[missileIndex].classList.contains('alien')) {
          squares[missileIndex].classList.remove('missile', 'alien')
          clearInterval(missileId)
          const newAlienIndex = alienIndex.indexOf(missileIndex)
          alienIndex.splice(newAlienIndex, 1)
          scores++
  }
}

Keypresses
From the start, I set myself a little challenge to enable the user to navigate the menus, start/pause and play the game using only the keyboard. The user would have to manoeuvre the shuttle to avoid collision. I started off by adding clickable buttons to move left and right, it worked but wasn't exactly user friendly. Once I figured out how to add keyboard interactivity by adding an event listener to the window, I mapped out all the keyboard buttons I'd need and wrote logic to perform a function depending on which menu the user was on:

document.addEventListener('keydown', function (e) {
    // if (!gameInPlay)
    //   return false
    switch(e.keyCode) {
      //move left
      case 37:
        if (userIndex % width !== 0) {
          userIndex-= 1
          moveMyPlayer()
        }
        break
        //move right
      case 39:
        if(userIndex % width &lt; width - 1) {
          userIndex += 1
          moveMyPlayer()
        }
        break
    }
  })

  document.addEventListener('keydown', function (e) {
    let missileIndex = userIndex
    if (e.keyCode === 38) {
      const missileId = setInterval(() => {
        if(missileIndex - width >=0) {
          squares[missileIndex].classList.remove('missile')
          missileIndex -= width
          squares[missileIndex].classList.add('missile')
  }
}

Audio
I could not get around fixing an audio for my game, with the time period I had but I plan to do so later on.

Featured Piece of Code no. 1
This function is called upon to pause the game in the event the user decides to go for an errand or takes a break, he or she can come back to the game an begin playing were they left off.

function pauseMyGame(e){
  if (e.target.innerHTML === 'PAUSE GAME') {
    // alienIndex.splice(0, alienIndex.length)
    // scores = 0
    // score.innerText = scores
    clearInterval(intervalId)
    clearInterval(alienBombInterval)
    // clearInterval(bombInterval)
    e.target.innerHTML = 'play'
  } else if (e.target.innerHTML === 'play') {
    intervalId = setInterval(moveMyAlien, 500)
    alienBombInterval = setInterval(alienLaser, 700)

    e.target.innerHTML = 'PAUSE GAME'

  }
}

Featured Piece of Code no. 2
This piece of CSS code gives the fonts a space-like digital look, so that whoever is playing the game has the feel of being in space. From /style.css.

. stop{
  font-family: 'Geostar', cursive;
}

Screen Shots
Final Products

Bugs
Below is a list of some of the known bugs within the game:

1 Reset Game- Once the game starts and there is a need for the player to restart the game, the restart sometimes causes some Aliens to disappear or it acts as though the Aliens have been killed already by the player. I have a strong sense that this is caused by the .slice.

2 Overlay Screen once the game ends- Once the game ends, there needs to be an overlay window that covers the screen with an end message and the Aliens stop moving or the board clears. I have a feeling that this has a lot to do with my CSS styling which i need to look into and fix.

Winners and Blockers
One of the problems I faced was trying to write a code to make sure the Aliens can fire bombs back at the Player while ensuring that the bullets from the Aliens and the Player do not go in the wrong trajectory. I also had the challenge of the tying the bombs hitting the player to the number of lives attributed to the player, so that when a bomb hits it, it takes away one life. The biggest win, by far, was the amount of confidence I gained working with JavaScript during this project. I got the opportunity to apply my new learnings in a real-world project and achieved more than I thought I could on my own, while helping me to understand fully everything we have been taught so far.

Future Content
Along with adding the shooting functionality, there are a number of potential future features I'd like to implement, such as:

1 Difficulty level mode: Putting in different difficulty levels for players. 2 Additional Aliens with faster sequences and time intervals. 3 More weapons and increase in shooting intervals to make it a bit difficult for the player to manoevure. 4 Ability to choose different space invaders background images for different levels, as to make it abit realistic as the game goes on. 5 Ability to increase the grid size. 6 Ability to add different types of Alien images as the player goes into different difficulty levels. 7 Ability for the player to earn rewards based on the number of Aliens killed in different difficulty levels. 8 Ability to allow players share their score and experiences online. 9 And much more!

Linter
Severity 	Provider 	Description	Line
